And so now that we have all of these
different selections calculated,
and we're going to use
that to update the DOM.
And there are actually two valid
ways to update the DOM, and
they result in exactly the same,
it's the exact same end result.
But there is an old way and a new way.
So let's start with the old way.
So with the old way, what we're going to
do is, We're going to take this rect,
which is a D3 selection with all of our
select currently existing five rectangles.
I'm sorry, I misspoke.
Sorry, this rect is what
the .data returned us.
So it's the one that has the update
selection, enter selection,
exit selection and this rect itself
represents the update selection.
And you'll see what I
mean in a little bit.
So from rect,
let's grab the exit selection with
this .exit, and we'll tell D3 that
this selection of the three rectangle
elements, let's remove it from the DOM.
The second thing we do in this old way is,
we go ahead and
we grab the enter selection, and
we create the new rectangles.
And then, the best practice
I used to follow is to set
attributes on that enter selection.
We're going to set attributes
that don't depend on the data.
And then we're going to put
that in this variable enter.
And finally, we want to grab
everything that is either existing,
so our update selection and
our newly created
rectangle elements so
that's our enter selection.
And we want to merge those together,
the enter and
update selections, and
that new merged selection
is what are going to be
in the DOM that perfectly
reflects what's in the new data array.
So, enter and update selections together,
is going to be what's in the DOM
by the end of all of this to perfectly
match what's in the new data array.
So enter.merge, and
then for that selection,
we're going to set attributes that
change when the data changes.
And the reason why we want to
kind of do it that way where
enter is setting attributes that
don't depend on the data and
with the enter+update is
the attributes that do
depend on data is because we
want to make sure to call these.
We want to make sure to set
these attributes every time
the data updates, and
that's why we do it here.
So that's the old way.
And now the new way,
which I think is really nice.
So the new way is just like before,
we go and grab our SVG element.
We select all of the existing rectangles,
which is those five existing
rectangle elements.
We bind the data as before
with our key function,
and now we call this
function called .join.
We're going to tell .join that we want
to be creating or removing rectangles.
And this one line if .join takes
care of all of the enters and
exits that we explicitly
called in the old way.
And that's really exciting because
that cuts out a lot of lines of code.
So, in this one line and this .join,
what it returns is that final enter and
update selection merged together so
that we get that selection
all of the DOM elements that
matched in your data array.
So because we get that enter and
update selection,
we can set all of our attributes on it.
We can set all of our attributes
that are dependent on the data and
we can set all of our attributes
that are not dependent on the data.
And these few lines,
Do the exact same thing as all of these
lines that I showed you previously.
So the new way is really, really nice.
And if we want to access
specific selections,
because maybe we want to do
specific things on just the enter
selection because maybe like
before with our flowers,
we have a nested SVG or nested structure.
So then maybe when we create
an enter our group elements,
maybe we need to also create an enter
all of our paths and all of our text.
In that case, we have this thing
where we can call .join and
instead of saying that we
want to render rectangles,
we pass in these functions
of the first function
is that we get back and
we pass in the function.
And we'll get as input
the enter selection,
From .data and
the important thing is that we need to
then return the enter.append,
so we need to return
that enter selection with all
of the rectangles created.
And then here, we can set attributes or
whatever we need to do for
the enter selection.
And we can do the same thing
with the update selection.
Although here,
I'm showing it as just returning that
update selection because I
haven't really ever come
across too many use cases where
I need to operate on just only
the update selection,
only the existing DOM elements.
But certainly you can do exactly
the same thing as here, here and
finally, a third function where we
get passed in the exit selection and
we can do whatever we
might need to with that.
And I should also note that,
you don't have to pass in update and
exit, you can pass in just enter,
so the rest of these are optional.
And finally, just as previously .join
returns the enter+update selection so
we can also chain
attributes down here after.
So the new way really is much
more convenient than the old way.
But I wanted to show you the old way
first because I think it's really quite
important to understand where this new way
came from, the thought process behind it.
And kind of how to think through, the
enter selection, the update selection and
the exit selection.